COMP2321: Coursework Overview – “CHESS FRAGMENTS”  

This game consists of two players: Agent, your designed algorithm, and Opponent, which 
represents a set of predefined baseline algorithms. Agent and Opponent compete on an 5x5 
grid in a turn-based strategy game inspired by chess.  

1. Rule:  

The board consists of several pieces chosen from the set {Right, Knight, Bishop, Queen, King, 
Pawn}, each with its own movement rules: 

• Right: Moves any number of squares horizontally or vertically. They can also move in an 
L-shape: two squares in one direction, then one square perpendicular. It can jump over 
other pieces. 

• Knight: Moves in an L-shape: two squares in one direction, then one square 
perpendicular, jumping over other pieces. 

• Bishop: Moves any number of squares diagonally. 

• King: Moves one square in any direction. 

• Queen: Moves any number of squares diagonally, horizontally, or vertically. 

• Pawn: Move one square forward. Pawn captures an opponent piece by moving one 
square diagonally forward to the occupied square. When pawn can reach the 
opponent's back rank, pawn is promoted to Queen. 

The piece King is always present on the board. Other pieces may or may not appear, depending 
on our board setup. In each game, Agent can play the white side, and Opponent plays as the 
black side, or vice versa. 

2. Example of piece movements: 
[Examples of movement omitted for brevity in text format.]

3. Board presentation in the Python environment 

In the CW support package, the game board is presented by a 2D matrix with a shape of (5,5). 
Each chess piece on the board is denoted by a single character: uppercase letters for white 
pieces and lowercase letters for black pieces. 

Example:
 0 1 2 3 4 
0 r b k q n 
1 p p p p p 
2      
3 P P P P P 
4 N Q K B R 

4. Win, Lose, or Draw:  

Win/Lose: The game ends in a win/lose under one of the following conditions 
• Checkmate 
• Stalemate 
• Thinking timeout 
• Illegal move 

Draw:  
• Only 2 kings remain 
• Fivefold repetition 
• Game timeout 

5. Preparing Your Agent (agent.py) for Submission 

You are required to design an Agent following the specified format. Algorithms such as minimax, 
alpha–beta pruning, etc. can be implemented. Ensure computational efficiency to avoid timeout. 

